# phishmenot

SpearPhishMeNot is an online checklist that can quickly determine whether an email is spam or malicious. It is a simple tool that requires little or no IT knowledge. As a result, all users of this tool must be able to access the checklist via a web browser on any device. It focuses on the three main areas of an email, namely the header, body, and attachment, to see if they contain information that could flag it as malicious or spam. When a user answers "YES" in the checklist for the header or body contents, the email is marked as suspicious.
The user can also learn how phishing works and how to avoid it by using this tool, as each checklist includes an explanation of why it may be suspicious. Furthermore, by using this tool on a regular basis, the checklist will imprint itself on the user, and it will become a natural reflex to check these items for emails that could be spam or malicious.

We have prepared the necessary checklist to assist in determining whether email is safe or not. The bulleted points indicate that the answer to the checklist question was YES; otherwise, the question is skipped to the next numbered question. A bracket following a point indicates that it is an italicised explanation for the user which the user can see while hovering over the question. In addition, if the user answers YES to any of the questions in 1 and 2, the checklist should notify them that the email is spam or suspicious and ask them if they want to continue running the checklist.
